## Modifications to Oracle SQL Firewall Configurations {#GUID-AB298C9F-556A-4A7D-841C-84EABFE3D55B}

After you create an Oracle SQL Firewall configuration for a user, you can modify the configuration as necessary. <br>To find information about Oracle SQL Firewall configurations, you can query the `DBA_SQL_FIREWALL_`* data dictionary views. <br>[Table 2-1](modifications-oracle-sql-firewall-configurations.md#GUID-AB298C9F-556A-4A7D-841C-84EABFE3D55B__TABLE_MLJ_SRD_GVB) lists operations that you can perform after you have configured SQL Firewall. 

**Table: Oracle SQL Firewall Modification Procedures**

Operation | Procedure  
---|---  
Enable SQL Firewall  | * To enable SQL Firewall in the database, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.ENABLE`. 
Manage captures | * To create a capture, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.CREATE_CAPTURE`. <br>* To start a capture, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.START_CAPTURE`. <br>* To modify a capture, delete the current one by using `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.DROP_CAPTURE`, and then create a new one by using `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.CREATE_CAPTURE`. <br>* To stop the SQL Firewall capture for the specified user, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.STOP_CAPTURE`. <br>* To delete the SQL Firewall capture for a specified user and delete all the existing capture logs for this user: <br>1. Use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.STOP_CAPTURE` to stop the capture process. <br>2. Use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.DROP_CAPTURE` to remove the capture. 
Manage allow-lists | * To generate an allow-list for a given user, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.GENERATE_ALLOW_LIST`. <br>* To enable an allow-list for a given user, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.ENABLE_ALLOW_LIST`. <br>* To update an allow-list enforcement, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.UPDATE_ALLOW_LIST_ENFORCEMENT`. <br>* To prevent SQL Firewall from capturing and enforcing allow-lists for database connections and SQL executions in Oracle Scheduler jobs, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.EXCLUDE`. <br>* To append all the SQL from a capture log or violation log (or from both) to the allow-list, use the `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.APPEND_ALLOW_LIST` procedure. You can run this procedure when the allow-list is either enabled or disabled. The change takes place immediately. <br>* To append a single SQL record from a capture log or violation log to the allow-list, use the `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.APPEND_ALLOW_LIST_SINGLE_SQL` procedure as follows: <br>1. Query the `DBA_SQL_FIREWALL_VIOLATIONS` or the `DBA_SQL_FIREWALL_CAPTURE_LOGS` data dictionary view to find the target SQL record that you want to add to the allow-list. <br> 2.Enter the obtained `USERNAME`, `SQL_SIGNATURE`, `CURRENT_USER`, and `TOP_LEVEL` values of that record in the `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.APPEND_ALLOW_LIST_SINGLE_SQL` procedure to add the target SQL record to the allow-list. <br>You can run `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.APPEND_ALLOW_LIST_SINGLE_SQL` when the allow-list is either enabled or disabled. The change takes place immediately.  <br>To export the allow-list of a given user to JSON format into the specified CLOB, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.EXPORT_ALLOW_LIST`. <br>* To import the allow-list for a given user into a target database, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.IMPORT_ALLOW_LIST`. <br>* To disable an allow-list for a given user, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.DISABLE_ALLOW_LIST`. <br>* To add or delete any context values from allowed context lists, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.ADD_ALLOWED_CONTEXT` or `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.DELETE_ALLOWED_CONTEXT`, respectively. <br>* To delete any SQL statement from allowed SQL lists, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.DELETE_ALLOWED_SQL`. <br>To delete the allow-list for a specified user: <br>1. Disable the allow-list by using `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.DISABLE_ALLOW_LIST`. <br>* Use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.DROP_ALLOW_LIST`. 
Manage allowed contexts | * To add a specified value to the allowed contexts of a specified user for the given context type, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.ADD_ALLOWED_CONTEXT`. <br>* To modify an allowed context, delete the current one by using `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.DELETE_ALLOWED_CONTEXT`, and then create a new one by using `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.ADD_ALLOWED_CONTEXT`. <br>* To delete the specified value from the allowed contexts of a specified user for the given context type, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.DELETE_ALLOWED_CONTEXT`. 
Manage allowed SQL | * To delete the specified entry from the allowed SQL of a specified user, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.DELETE_ALLOWED_SQL`. You can run this procedure when the allow-list is either enabled or disabled, and the change takes place immediately. 
Manage SQL Firewall log tables | * To move the SQL Firewall log tables to a different user-defined tablespace other than the default tablespace, `SYSAUX`: <br>1. Disable SQL Firewall by using `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.DISABLE`. <br>*Use the `MOVE` clause of the `ALTER TABLE` statement to perform the move operation. <br>*You can also use the `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.MOVE_LOG_TABLE` procedure to move the SQL Firewall log tables to another tablespace.  <br>* To purge capture logs or violation logs for a user or all users, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.PURGE_LOG`. <br>*To flush all the SQL Firewall logs that reside in the memory into the log tables, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.FLUSH_LOGS`. 
Disable SQL Firewall  | * To disable SQL Firewall in the database and stop all the existing captures and allow-lists that are enabled, use `DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL.DISABLE`. 



**Related Topics**

* [*Oracle Database PL/SQL Packages and Types Reference*](https://docs.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlfw&id=ARPLS-GUID-9DFE7C7F-32A7-4D3A-98C1-E90D8D0475D8)
* [Oracle SQL Firewall Data Dictionary Views](oracle-sql-firewall-data-dictionary-views.md#GUID-A0C5F3D8-3F64-4493-B3A6-223F974C8786)

